So we are going to start a new project which is basically Java email application.
And you can say email system with some server deployment, JSP and Java servlet.
So if you know there are different email APIs to send email, which is basically text email, I'm going
to send you.
So for that purpose, I'm going to use different protocols, some APIs which are very stable APIs now.
So sometimes you are going to develop some bigger web app for a company or consider one company which
needs that.
They are having some administrative help for each and every employee.
But to send even in that employee's condition, you can create one some microservices for the purpose.
So it's not exactly microservice I'm going to do.
I'm just going to deploy server deployment from JSP application here.
So this is it.
Our project title, which is basically Java email application.
So.
What is our project aim?
We choose.
Basically we are going to develop email system to send and receive mails using java solid.
Receiving mails is quite a tough job while doing this because of I'm going to use your Gmail as my email
or protocol or we can say server.
So there may be some authentication errors sometimes.
So we can say there may be some handshake SSL errors also.
So we need to record from that.
Issuing mail is not very tough job, but it's very complex job while I'm using Gmail because it's not
very open source mail as if, you know, you can try another mails.
Also read if there are different servers for that purpose.
My solution is I'm going with Gmail because it's very simple and all the things.
But if you want to use 100% open source mail and you find find everything code, you can use standard
mail or protonmail also, which is 100% open source mail systems.
So you can do that.
Or if you want to use another, you can use your own SMTP server.
If you have, you can use that also for this deployment.
So our project team is develop email system to send and receive mails.
First ask is sending mail.
After that we will see how we can receive our mails using our servlet technology and not using your
pure servlet technology.
I'm using Java as my mail, sending backend as a server deployment.
So I'm using here JSP also for printing part or we can see efficient for front end part.
So steps of our development is project setup how we are going to set up our project first understanding
different tools.
We are going to use your what the dependency injection everything I'm going to tell here then some java
basics.
What is the SMTP protocol here then what is the JSP basics?
Java service dependency related application and deployment of the server is the final step.
So that's it about our project aim and everything.
So.
Let us see.
Application Requirements.
JSP Pages.
Finally just me here I mentioning only just three pages, but consider I am accessing their different
also see us as file bootstrap files to create some UI for this email.
Sending mail is very easy.
I'm going to create some Java libraries I'm going to use here then gmail account.
You should have gmail account or any SMTP server account.
You have permission to access that account.
I will tell you what permissions you needed there.
Then Java basics to create classes and everything you need to understand that Java Oops concepts, object
oriented programming concepts.
Because I'm not considering only one class to create or send that.
I want to create some different classes and I'm going to use some oops concepts here and some server
deployment concepts.
Why am telling server deployment concepts?
Deployment Officer on server is very easy task for ID, but you should understand while developing you
may get errors.
So you should understand what are the errors?
Then JDK 16 and some dependencies.
Also we are going to use ID and preferring branch ID because it's very useful ID while injecting dependencies,
it will automatically ask for that dependencies and everything.
If you comfortable with another ID, you can proceed with that ID, but I'm proceeding with the idea
inside the last server or tomcat.
So I preferably say that Tomcat server because you can change your port directly in that server.
So no need to ask it again and again for changing the server or mentioning the domain on that server
you can easily put through the console.
So these are the application requirements.
So let us see what are the functional requirements.
So what is the difference between application requirements?
Application is just for development, but functional requirements are useful to create some classes,
everything.
So I'm not going very deep in that part.
But let us check what are the functional requirements?
So JSP pages and Java programs both are different.
I'm creating here considering I'm not here using any database to store such emails, but in real life
what happens actually or that email should be solved.
So back in my database to store their emails in the database, why am not using this?
Because this is very primary considering an email application if you want to create database also you
can go with that or you can develop on cloud.
Also like Google Cloud or cloud, you can use Amazon Cloud.
There are different solutions available on Internet.
You can use MongoDB for that database consideration because email is not just text, but there are files
also.
There are images also, so you can use that MongoDB part because it's very advanced database.
So for my purpose I'm considering only text and everything here, so I'm not using any database here.
JSP Page.
JSP Page is basically you want front end to send mail first.
Then connecting that logic.
It's a second thing and having some feels like it's a subject body of everything.
You can use with GSP also.
In addition with UI, I need some CSS files and some user file.
I'm using your as default template for receiving mail.
Then Java programs, which is basically the main logic behind the sending authentication part and checking
part.
I'm going to use your access to an email service Java program having that purpose.
But here I'm using Gmail's APIs because it's very easy to create that part and some mail receiving fills
printing in console.
You can do that part also.
So that's about how we are proceeding with the functional requirements.
So let us see how we can set up our project first.
So let me go to my ID first and let me configure this first.
Okay.
So this is my intelligent idea.
You can check the front end part also here.
For.
Let me just customize this because.
Besides.
So this is my intent.
The idea or home page you can see here.
You can choose the default themes, everything here.
So I set it to light theme.
So here you can see your previous projects.
If you already created if not created, you can check your blank.
I'm using your intel idea Ultimate Edition, or you can use Community Edition.
Also know what is and there are plugins and everything here.
But before proceeding with anything, let me tell you two things here.
I'm specifying again and again, which are very important here.
First is download Smart Tomcat, which is Tomcat Server plugin, which is very useful and right to download
this multi run.
It's not community preferred, but it's very useful while developing this and my event which is already
developed.
But try to if you install already try to update this plugin which is we are going to use.
So just go to projects.
When you go to the projects, you can check your new projects, click on new projects.
So due to system load.
For me, it will take time to.
Do this.
So it will take.
It is taking time.
So as you can see previously, you can see this window, not the previous window default.
You can check this window then go to the Java enterprise if you are using.
So not ultimately different community relations.
You cannot see these things.
So just go with Java and you can add it later that part.
But my preference, if you are using this, you are going to create Java Enterprise Edition.
Give the name here.
So.
Sister in law.
It's taking time for me.
So sometimes you may face these errors while developing these.
Okay.
So in demo, let me give you the name as e mail.
Think be patient email application, use the location then web application.
If you cannot see any server, no application server, go to new.
And Jews here don't get served and give the directory.
I already downloaded Tomcat 9.4.8 its latest server and you can use it click your web application or
choose maven choose language Java J Unit and Change Group to Azure.
So I'm adding here.
Email.
1614.
You can choose any.
So I'm using systems that will automatically detect.
If not, you have to add the JDK and you are good to go with this.
So.
Okay.
It will take time to load that.
Oh, now it's loaded.
Click next.
It will show the Java eight E version Tuesdays only because after this Jakarta started.
So the syntax is different.
So I'm using your Java eight version.
Click your web profile.
Or what you can do is instead of putting the web profile, you can use this web socket and servlet.
So that's it.
We are going to use your Node.js on or anything not we are going to use here.
You can use your pin validation also, but it's not required.
You create a profile, you can see it will consider it, but.
And solid extremely web services.
Also, if you want to add, you can add, but I'm adding.
Yeah.
Don't add anything.
Click Finish.
So it will create a default project for you with some indexed or DSP file, some servlet files.
So you are going to delete that files because these are not required index or DSP as it is.
But another file, we are going to delete that.
So.
This is all about how we can set up our project so it will automatically create the system default project
as your requirements.
Sometimes it may take time because of some loading issues and everything, because it's very useful.
ID It takes time sometimes to develop everything.
So now it's loading, it's preparing workplace workspace for me.
So wait for.
It will automatically create everything for me.
So as you can see it's processing for hello solid which is we are going to delete that because we are
not required for that purpose.
So we just require index, dot, JSP and servlet files which I'm going to create in the next tutorial.
But in this tutorial I'm just focusing on the setup we are going to set up and some servlet concepts
also.
So let me tell you what is the import XML?
This is the dependency injection I'm using here, Marvin, as my project mark and I'm using my main.
So the beautiful thing of Marvin, I don't require it to download any jar files or anything.
It will automatically use that files through everything.
As you can see, this is loaded and you can see here my one console.
So let me minimize this part.
So this is my index dot JSP is notice and this is my hello servlet.
So this package and here you can see in the HRC main, if you go to these are the views here.
If I go to packages meaning you can not see because it's currently loaded and indexing everything.
What if I go to Java?
You can see in the com part, which is basically application part, you can see this email and everything.
So email application and everything.
So I'm going to delete this later because I'm not interested in that part and web app for all the web
containing part.
So it's importing all the migrants in here.
Because no, I mean, it's just like dependency injection, you know, to specify the dependency as
a symbol in the form of XML and it will create everything form.
So it's indexing, as you can see.
And then once it's loaded.
It will default.
Give me everything.
So while it's loading, it's now loaded.
Just go to your Tomcat and edit configuration.
This is the running configuration.
So I hope you can see this.
So I added this file.
Then.
Redeploy.
To redeploy.
If you want to change, I'm going to change your as you told them to.
So why I'm changing because it is caught by my another service.
So I'm going to change this am going to apply here.
So as you can see, this is a plan.
This is my URL.
Hit enter.
If you want to check your application is running or not, your server is correct or not.
Just click here, run.
So now it's indexing.
It will take time to index everything.
Analyzing.
Okay.
So hit enter.
So it started building.
So in this console, which is basically the downward console, you can see this executing and tasks
in surrounding the dependencies.
So while doing this building task, let us see what is this?
So as you can see, these are the properties of Maven and this is the dependencies is asking like Java
X servlet.
So I haven't mentioned any Java s thing here.
I just added this dependency.
So it will take automatically dependencies from the internet and it will mean give me this J.W. Jupyter
files.
Also it's asking.
So it's doing all these things on their own in Maven.
So why I'm using here my values because of this, because I don't want to download any Java specific
Java files to develop this.
I can just do this contradiction.
So what is a beautiful thing is here my developing this such cases as the industry level, the system
configuration may differ from system to system, like someone is using another voice and I'm using another
way.
So it will useful for developing this part also.
So currently it's building and it will take time to build everything.
But.
Build is complete now you can build is complete successfully so far or the first time building it will
take time.
After that, it will not take time to build because we are just adding the files.
So it will compile.
That building takes some one minute 20 seconds.
So as you can see and if you go to the service, currently service is not started, but it's building.
So for the first time building, it will take time.
After that, it won't take time at all for the building purpose.
So as you can see this finished.
Now I'm connecting to the service and it's running and its output is going to display.
So it's creating everything.
It's copying everything.
And or sometimes you may get some this note and everything here.
Just try to stick and wait for some time to deploy.
Everything, as you can see, connected to the server, it will automatically create server for me.
So wait for some time.
It will automatically deploy server for.
So as you can see, these are the start up in the server.
You can see the these are the local host things.
And now you can see these are the JSP.
This is the JSP page basically for me.
And if I click Hello Servlet.
I can go to this hello hello world, which is basically my software part.
So my store server is running now.
Let me.
We all this over.
So as the system loads on my system, sometimes it may take time to.
This.
So this is the XML.
And now I'm what I'm going to mention is here you can delete this everything delete and you can clear
out this JSP also till this.
Because this is no more required thing for us to save this.
And you can delete this comment also.
So in further videos I'm going to create Java and index your decimal.
Hope you understand this part.
I will tell you the basics of solids, everything.
So in the next videos, let us also consider some this dependency injection.
Also, I will tell you.
Thank you.